---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-18
published: true
labels:
  - Technical Essay
---

WOD 1: 20:34. With the first WOD, I was able to set up and create the needed index.html file and format the html document with the built-in doc EMMET boilerplate with relative ease. I did find though that it was challenging when I was trying to format the syntax of the href for the four sections and linking those to the table of contents. This was because I forgot the tag for creating a list and ended up having to restart the recording as I was going above the time limit. I reviewed the screen cast and the reading which was able to rejog my memory on the table of contents and then I was able to complete the rest of the work without many troubles. I ended up finishing this within the SD range on my second try. This task at first seemed like it wasn’t going to be that difficult but remembering the syntaxes for each command and where to put each command on the document was tedious and ended up taking longer than expected. 

WOD 2: 9:53. The second WOD built off from the work completed in the first WOD, with the addition of a style sheet to create customizations for the index.html. I was able to successfully copy the index.html and create the style sheet easily. Linking the stylesheet was also easy as we had done an example of this in class. I did notice that I ran into a small problem of my stylesheet changes not adding the respective changes to my index.html when I had opened my browser to the localhost. I wasn’t quite sure why the changes weren’t populating on my browser, but I ended up figuring it out by saving each file manually in the WOD 2 folder. The rest of the changes that I made to the stylesheets was relatively quick and I ended up finishing within the RX range on my first try.

WOD 3: 12:59. The third WOD built off from the work completed in the second WOD, with the addition of format changes to clean up the web page. I had some trouble when trying to format the stylesheet to make the index.html’s text appear on the left, center, and right sides of the screen. When I would enter in the command, it would only shift slightly, and the columns seemed to be much too thin when compared to the example. So, when reviewing my stylesheet, I noticed that I only entered 100px for the margins, when I changed it to 300px, the columns appeared much more similar to the given example. This small error caused me to need to restart my recording as it took me a few minutes to figure it out. The rest of the WOD went relatively smooth and I was able to finish my recording in the AV range after two attempts. 
